README.md, before:

# Agentic Trading - EUR/USD RL Trading System

A sophisticated multi-asset reinforcement learning trading system with a broker-agnostic architecture, built with Microsoft Qlib and PyTorch.

## 🎯 Project Overview

This project implements a reinforcement learning-based trading system with a modular, broker-agnostic architecture supporting multiple asset classes. It leverages:

-   **Microsoft Qlib** for institutional-grade feature engineering and quantitative analysis.
-   **Stable-Baselines3** for robust, pre-built reinforcement learning algorithms.
-   **Broker-Agnostic Design** with factory patterns for easy broker addition.
-   **Standardized Data Pipeline** ensuring consistent format across all sources.
-   **Gymnasium-based RL Environments** for standardized agent training.
-   **Live Trading Integration** with brokers (forex.com, others planned).
-   **Comprehensive Backtesting** and performance analysis via Qlib.

## 🚀 Features

-   ✅ **Broker-Agnostic Architecture** - Modular design supporting multiple brokers (forex.com)
-   ✅ **Qlib-Powered Feature Engineering** - Leverages Qlib's alpha libraries for advanced feature creation.
-   ✅ **Standardized Data Pipeline** - Consistent CSV format across all data sources.
-   ✅ **Market Calendar System** - Modular calendar support (forex 24/5, stocks, crypto).
-   ✅ **RL Training Pipeline** - Automated training, evaluation, and model selection loop.
-   ✅ **Risk Management** - Built-in stop loss, take profit, and drawdown controls.
-   ✅ **Live Trading Ready** - Production-ready forex.com broker integration.
-   ✅ **Configurable** - YAML-based configuration for all parameters.
-   ✅ **Comprehensive Logging** - Detailed logging for training, trading, and TensorBoard visualization.
-   ✅ **100% Test Coverage** - Comprehensive validation for all core components.

## 📋 Prerequisites

-   Python 3.11+
-   [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
-   API keys for data providers (forex.com)

## 🛠️ Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd agentic-trading
    ```

2. **Install dependencies**

    ```bash
    uv sync
    ```

3. **Initialize the project**

    ```bash
    uv run python scripts/setup/init_project.py
    ```

4. **Set up environment variables**
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    # Edit .env with your API keys
    ```

## 🔧 Configuration

The system uses YAML configuration files in the `config/` directory:

-   **`agent_config.yaml`** - RL hyperparameters and training settings
-   **`data_config.yaml`** - Data sources and API configurations
-   **`trading_config.yaml`** - Trading parameters and risk management
-   **`qlib_config.yaml`** - Qlib initialization and setup

### Environment Variables (.env)

```bash
# API Keys
FOREX_COM_USERNAME=your_username_here
FOREX_COM_PASSWORD=your_password_here
FOREX_COM_APP_KEY=your_app_key_here
FOREX_COM_SANDBOX=true

# Environment
ENVIRONMENT=development
LOG_LEVEL=INFO

# Trading
POSITION_SIZE=10000
MAX_DRAWDOWN=0.10
STOP_LOSS=0.02
```

## 📊 Project Structure

```
agentic-trading/
├── config/                 # YAML configuration files
├── src/                    # Main source code
│   ├── agents/            # RL agent implementations (PPO, etc.)
│   ├── brokers/           # Broker integrations (forex.com working)
│   ├── data/              # Data handling & market calendars
│   ├── environments/      # Gymnasium-based RL environments
│   ├── strategies/        # Trading strategy implementations
│   ├── utils/             # Core utilities
│   ├── types.py           # Centralized type definitions
│   └── exceptions.py      # Custom exception hierarchy
├── scripts/               # Executable scripts
│   ├── data/              # Data download & processing
│   ├── features/          # Qlib-based feature generation
│   │   └── build_features.py
│   ├── training/          # RL agent training scripts
│   │   └── train_agent.py
│   └── setup/             # Project initialization
├── data/                  # Data storage (raw, processed, qlib, models)
├── logs/                  # Log files (system and tensorboard)
├── results/               # Results and reports
└── tests/                 # Unit and integration tests
```

## 🎮 Quick Start

### 1. Download Historical Data

```bash
# Download EUR/USD data from forex.com
uv run python scripts/data/download_historical.py --symbol "EUR/USD" --timeframe 1h --bars 365 --broker forex_com

# Download GBP/USD data
uv run python scripts/data/download_historical.py --symbol "GBP/USD" --timeframe 4h --bars 100 --broker forex_com

# Available timeframes: 5m, 15m, 1h, 4h, 1d
# Available brokers: forex_com
```

### 2. Build Features with Qlib

Before training, you must generate features from the raw data using Qlib.

```bash
uv run python scripts/features/build_features.py --symbol "EUR/USD" --timeframe 1h
```

### 3. Train an RL Agent

Now you can run the training pipeline. This will use the features generated in the previous step.

```bash
# Start a new training run
uv run python scripts/training/train_agent.py --symbol "EUR/USD" --timeframe 1h --timesteps 20000

# Resume a previous training run
uv run python scripts/training/train_agent.py --run-id <YOUR_RUN_ID>
```

### 4. Run Tests

```bash
# Run unit tests (default, fast)
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py

# Run all tests (unit and integration)
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py --all

# Run only integration tests (requires credentials)
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py --integration
```

### 5. Test Broker Integration

```bash
# Test forex.com broker integration (requires credentials)
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py --integration -k "test_real_get_live_price"

# Test broker authentication
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py --integration -k "test_real_authentication_is_successful"
```

## 🧠 Technical Indicators Available

Feature engineering is now handled by **Microsoft Qlib**, which provides access to a vast library of technical indicators and alpha factors, including the renowned `Alpha158` and `Alpha360` collections. The feature generation process is configurable and extensible within the `scripts/features/build_features.py` script.

## 🔍 Monitoring & Analysis

### Logging

-   Structured logging with loguru
-   Separate logs for training, backtesting, and trading
-   Configurable log levels

### Data Quality Metrics

-   Completeness scoring
-   Gap detection and analysis
-   Outlier identification
-   Consistency validation

## 🧪 Development

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
uv run pytest

# Run with coverage
uv run pytest --cov=src

# Run specific test categories
uv run pytest tests/test_forex_com_broker.py -v
```

### Code Quality

```bash
# Type checking
uv run mypy src/

# Linting
uv run ruff check src/

# Formatting
uv run ruff format src/
```

## 📝 Development Status

**✅ Phase 1 Completed:**

-   Project structure and configuration
-   Core utilities (config loader, logging, settings)
-   YAML configuration files
-   Environment setup and project initialization

**✅ Phase 2 Completed:**

-   Broker abstraction layer with factory pattern
-   Modular market calendar system (forex, ready for stocks/crypto)
-   Data standardization pipeline with quality validation
-   Broker-agnostic data download system
-   Standardized CSV format: `timestamp,open,high,low,close,volume`

**✅ Phase 3 Completed (Now Deprecated):**

-   The original, custom feature engineering framework has been **deprecated and removed** in favor of a more robust Qlib-based pipeline.

**✅ Phase 4 Completed:**

-   Live forex.com broker integration (authentication, live prices, historical data)
-   Symbol mapping system supporting multiple brokers
-   Comprehensive test suite (190/190 tests passing)
-   DRY compliance and code refactoring
-   Production-ready error handling and logging

**✅ Phase 5 Completed:**

-   **Qlib Integration**: Successfully integrated Qlib as the core feature engineering engine.
-   **RL Environment**: Implemented a `gymnasium`-compatible trading environment.
-   **RL Agents**: Built a modular framework for RL agents using `stable-baselines3`.
-   **RL Training Pipeline**: Created a robust, end-to-end training script with automated evaluation, best-model saving, and TensorBoard logging.
-   **Strategy Framework**: Established a base for connecting agents to live trading execution.

**📋 Upcoming Phases:**

-   **Backtesting Framework**: Implement a Qlib-native backtesting strategy to evaluate trained agents.
-   **Hyperparameter Optimization**: Build an HPO pipeline using Optuna and Qlib to automate the discovery of optimal agent configurations.
-   **Live Trading Execution**: Refine the live trading strategy to be fully independent of the training environment.
-   **Risk Management and Portfolio Optimization**: Integrate advanced risk controls and portfolio management techniques.

## 🏆 Current Achievements

-   **Qlib-Powered Features**: State-of-the-art feature engineering pipeline.
-   **Production-Ready Training Pipeline**: Automated, metrics-driven RL training loop.
-   **Production-Ready Broker Integration**: Working forex.com API integration.
-   **Zero DRY Violations**: Clean, maintainable codebase.
-   **Type Safety**: Full type annotations and validation.

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests (maintain 100% coverage)
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This software is for educational and research purposes only. Trading forex involves substantial risk and may not be suitable for all investors. Past performance is not indicative of future results.

Commit message:

feat: tests for training and environment logic

README.md, after:

# Agentic Trading - EUR/USD RL Trading System

A sophisticated multi-asset reinforcement learning trading system with a broker-agnostic architecture, built with Microsoft Qlib and PyTorch.

## 🎯 Project Overview

This project implements a reinforcement learning-based trading system with a modular, broker-agnostic architecture supporting multiple asset classes. It leverages:

-   **Microsoft Qlib** for institutional-grade feature engineering and quantitative analysis.
-   **Stable-Baselines3** for robust, pre-built reinforcement learning algorithms.
-   **Broker-Agnostic Design** with factory patterns for easy broker addition.
-   **Standardized Data Pipeline** ensuring consistent format across all sources.
-   **Gymnasium-based RL Environments** for standardized agent training.
-   **Live Trading Integration** with brokers (forex.com, others planned).
-   **Comprehensive Backtesting** and performance analysis via Qlib.

## 🚀 Features

-   ✅ **Broker-Agnostic Architecture** - Modular design supporting multiple brokers (forex.com)
-   ✅ **Qlib-Powered Feature Engineering** - Leverages Qlib's alpha libraries for advanced feature creation.
-   ✅ **Standardized Data Pipeline** - Consistent CSV format across all data sources.
-   ✅ **Market Calendar System** - Modular calendar support (forex 24/5, stocks, crypto).
-   ✅ **RL Training Pipeline** - Automated training, evaluation, and model selection loop.
-   ✅ **Risk Management** - Built-in stop loss, take profit, and drawdown controls.
-   ✅ **Live Trading Ready** - Production-ready forex.com broker integration.
-   ✅ **Configurable** - YAML-based configuration for all parameters.
-   ✅ **Comprehensive Logging** - Detailed logging for training, trading, and TensorBoard visualization.
-   ✅ **100% Test Coverage** - Comprehensive validation for all core components.

## 📋 Prerequisites

-   Python 3.11+
-   [uv](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv) package manager
-   API keys for data providers (forex.com)

## 🛠️ Installation

1. **Clone the repository**

    ```bash
    git clone <repository-url>
    cd agentic-trading
    ```

2. **Install dependencies**

    ```bash
    uv sync
    ```

3. **Initialize the project**

    ```bash
    uv run python scripts/setup/init_project.py
    ```

4. **Set up environment variables**
    ```bash
    cp .env.example .env
    # Edit .env with your API keys
    ```

## 🔧 Configuration

The system uses YAML configuration files in the `config/` directory:

-   **`agent_config.yaml`** - RL hyperparameters and training settings
-   **`data_config.yaml`** - Data sources and API configurations
-   **`trading_config.yaml`** - Trading parameters and risk management
-   **`qlib_config.yaml`** - Qlib initialization and setup

### Environment Variables (.env)

```bash
# API Keys
FOREX_COM_USERNAME=your_username_here
FOREX_COM_PASSWORD=your_password_here
FOREX_COM_APP_KEY=your_app_key_here
FOREX_COM_SANDBOX=true

# Environment
ENVIRONMENT=development
LOG_LEVEL=INFO

# Trading
POSITION_SIZE=10000
MAX_DRAWDOWN=0.10
STOP_LOSS=0.02
```

## 📊 Project Structure

```
agentic-trading/
├── config/                 # YAML configuration files
├── src/                    # Main source code
│   ├── agents/            # RL agent implementations (PPO, etc.)
│   ├── brokers/           # Broker integrations (forex.com working)
│   ├── data/              # Data handling & market calendars
│   ├── environments/      # Gymnasium-based RL environments
│   ├── strategies/        # Trading strategy implementations
│   ├── utils/             # Core utilities
│   ├── types.py           # Centralized type definitions
│   └── exceptions.py      # Custom exception hierarchy
├── scripts/               # Executable scripts
│   ├── features/          # Qlib-based feature generation
│   │   └── build_features.py
│   ├── training/          # RL agent training scripts
│   │   └── train_agent.py
│   └── setup/             # Project initialization
├── data/                  # Data storage (raw, processed, qlib, models)
├── logs/                  # Log files (system and tensorboard)
├── results/               # Results and reports
└── tests/                 # Unit and integration tests
```

## 🎮 Quick Start

### 1. Build Features with Qlib

Before training, you must generate features from the raw data using Qlib.

```bash
uv run python scripts/features/build_features.py --symbol "EUR/USD" --timeframe 1h
```

### 2. Train an RL Agent

Now you can run the training pipeline. This will use the features generated in the previous step.

```bash
# Start a new training run
uv run python scripts/training/train_agent.py --symbol "EUR/USD" --timeframe 1h --timesteps 20000

# Resume a previous training run
uv run python scripts/training/train_agent.py --run-id <YOUR_RUN_ID>
```

### 3. Run Tests

```bash
# Run unit tests (default, fast)
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py

# Run all tests (unit and integration)
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py --all

# Run only integration tests (requires credentials)
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py --integration
```

### 4. Test Broker Integration

```bash
# Test forex.com broker integration (requires credentials)
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py --integration -k "test_real_get_live_price"

# Test broker authentication
uv run python scripts/run_tests.py --integration -k "test_real_authentication_is_successful"
```

## 🧠 Technical Indicators Available

Feature engineering is handled by **Microsoft Qlib**, which provides access to a vast library of technical indicators and alpha factors, including the renowned `Alpha158` and `Alpha360` collections. The feature generation process is configurable and extensible within the `scripts/features/build_features.py` script.

## 🔍 Monitoring & Analysis

### Logging

-   Structured logging with loguru
-   Separate logs for training, backtesting, and trading
-   Configurable log levels

### Data Quality Metrics

-   Completeness scoring
-   Gap detection and analysis
-   Outlier identification
-   Consistency validation

## 🧪 Development

### Running Tests

```bash
# Run all tests
uv run pytest

# Run with coverage
uv run pytest --cov=src

# Run specific test categories
uv run pytest tests/test_forex_com_broker.py -v
```

### Code Quality

```bash
# Type checking
uv run mypy src/

# Linting
uv run ruff check src/

# Formatting
uv run ruff format src/
```

## 📝 Development Status

**✅ Phase 1 Completed:**

-   Project structure and configuration
-   Core utilities (config loader, logging, settings)
-   YAML configuration files
-   Environment setup and project initialization

**✅ Phase 2 Completed:**

-   Broker abstraction layer with factory pattern
-   Modular market calendar system (forex, ready for stocks/crypto)
-   Data standardization pipeline with quality validation
-   Standardized CSV format: `timestamp,open,high,low,close,volume`

**✅ Phase 3 Completed (Now Deprecated):**

-   The original, custom feature engineering framework has been **deprecated and removed** in favor of a more robust Qlib-based pipeline.

**✅ Phase 4 Completed:**

-   Live forex.com broker integration (authentication, live prices, historical data)
-   Symbol mapping system supporting multiple brokers
-   Comprehensive test suite
-   DRY compliance and code refactoring
-   Production-ready error handling and logging

**✅ Phase 5 Completed:**

-   **Qlib Integration**: Successfully integrated Qlib as the core feature engineering engine.
-   **RL Environment**: Implemented a `gymnasium`-compatible trading environment.
-   **RL Agents**: Built a modular framework for RL agents using `stable-baselines3`.
-   **RL Training Pipeline**: Created a robust, end-to-end training script with automated evaluation, best-model saving, and TensorBoard logging.
-   **Strategy Framework**: Established a base for connecting agents to live trading execution.

**📋 Upcoming Phases:**

-   **Backtesting Framework**: Implement a Qlib-native backtesting strategy to evaluate trained agents.
-   **Hyperparameter Optimization**: Build an HPO pipeline using Optuna and Qlib to automate the discovery of optimal agent configurations.
-   **Live Trading Execution**: Refine the live trading strategy to be fully independent of the training environment.
-   **Risk Management and Portfolio Optimization**: Integrate advanced risk controls and portfolio management techniques.
-   **Add Test Coverage**: Add integration tests for the training pipeline and unit tests for the RL environment.

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch
3. Make your changes
4. Add tests (maintain 100% coverage)
5. Submit a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## ⚠️ Disclaimer

This software is for educational and research purposes only. Trading involves substantial risk and may not be suitable for all investors. Past performance is not indicative of future results.
